# CS-360-Mobile-Architect-and-Programming

The application that I developed is an inventory management application. The Mobile Inventory Application is meant to support Warehouse managers and employees. However, there is an opportunity to support users working elsewhere. Warehouse managers would use the application to keep track of supplies in a warehouse and make management decisions. Warehouse employees would use the application to keep track of supplies and update the inventory in the warehouse. This application would support both users as they perform their jobs. Not only could this application work for warehouse managers and employees, but it could also work for users in any industry. For example, someone running a hotel can use this application to keep track of their inventory and supplies. Another example could be someone running a household and needing to keep track of materials and food. A final example could be a grocery store manager and grocery store employees. This application is meant to provide any user with an easy way to keep track of their inventory in any setting.

This application will have access to a database with at least two tables, one to store the inventory items and one to store user logins and passwords. There are also multiple screens the user has access to. There is a new user registration screen, a screen for logging into the application, a screen with a grid that displays all the items in the inventory, a screen to add new items to the inventory list, a screen to update items in the inventory list, a screen to delete all items in the inventory, and a screen to sign up for SMS messaging when inventory levels have been reduced to 0. All screens were designed with the user in mind. Making the application simple to use was important. 

To code this application, I first started with the UI portion working on the xml files. Designing the screens first helped determine how the code is written as the edit text fields and buttons were created. After designing the screens, I was able to move onto the code. By employing activities so each screen had its own activity class, I was able to create seamless interactions between the screens. The code gave me quite a few problems in certain areas where I would get a run time error. I was able to overcome those issues by remaking the classes and reviewing the code line by line. Some strategies I used was runnign the code after every new class or function was made within the activity. It helped me with checking my code as I went and ensuring the application ran as I had intended it to run. This also helped me with determining if my code was functional. It revealed to me where my code might be missing a space, or missing some other indicator. 

One major challenge that I had was designing my grid view. For some reason, I was unable to make it work for the inventory screen. I found that using recylcer view was much easier. Connecting it to the database of inventory was much simpler for me than utilizing grid view. Even though this was a challenge, I found that I was particularly succesfull in creating this inventory page and connecting it to a database. One database was for a user registration and one for the inventory list. Connecting the databases with a my database helper class was particularly fun.  I used two different methods for creating a database. Both do the exact same thing, but it was challenging to set both up. Now, if you access the device explorer while running the emulator, you are able to see both databases. 

